
#### **1.** What are the three common levels of exception safety? Briefly explain each one and why it is important.

The canonical Abrahams Guarantees are as follows.

1. Basic Guarantee: If an exception is thrown, **no resources are leaked, and objects remain in a destructible and usable** -- but not necessarily predictable -- state. This is the weakest usable level of exception safety, and is appropriate where client code can cope with failed operations that have already made changes to objects' state.

2. Strong Guarantee: **If an exception is thrown, program state remains unchanged.** This level always implies global commit-or-rollback semantics, including that no references or iterators into a container be invalidated if an operation fails.

In addition, certain functions must provide an even stricter guarantee in order to make the above exception safety levels possible:

3. Nothrow Guarantee: **The function will not emit an exception under any circumstances.** It turns out that it is sometimes impossible to implement the strong or even the basic guarantee unless certain functions are guaranteed not to throw (e.g., destructors, deallocation functions). As we will see below, an important feature of the standard auto_ptr is that no auto_ptr operation will throw.

#### 2. What is the canonical form of strongly exception-safe copy assignment?

It involves two steps: First, provide a nonthrowing Swap() function that swaps the guts (state) of two objects:

```cpp
void T::Swap( T& other ) throw()
  {
    // ...swap the guts of *this and other...
  }
```

Second, implement operator=() using the "create a temporary and swap" idiom:

```cpp

  T& T::operator=( const T& other )
  {
    T temp( other ); // do all the work off to the side

    Swap( temp );    // then "commit" the work using
    return *this;    //  nonthrowing operations only
  }
```

### reference
---
[GotW #59: Exception-Safe Class Design, Part 1: Copy Assignment](http://gotw.ca/gotw/059.htm)